Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today we're going to talk about Bitcoin
and we're going to provide an update to
the bare market resistance ban. If you
guys like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
a thumbs up, and also check out the sale
on into the cryptoverse premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
Let's go ahead and jump in. So,
Bitcoin's trading right around $77,000.
And we've previously talked a little bit
about like windows of weakness and
windows of strength throughout the
midterm years. One of the windows of
weaknesses. The the major one is is
February, right? February kind of shows
up every single time as a window of
weakness for Bitcoin in midterm years.
You'll see, you know, February of 2014,
February of 2018, February of 2022, and
February of 2026.
The next one after that is usually like
late March, early April. Um, here's
April of 2014. You've got April, early
April of 2018. You also have, um, in
2022, it was later April that ended up
being weaker. Um, and in this case, it
was sort of early April where that
higher low formed, kind of like 2018, in
fact. Now the the next one after that
May is usually not that weak in terms of
like the the monthly return. Uh but but
a lot of times going into June, right?
If you look at June, Bitcoin tends to be
weak going into June. That doesn't mean
all of June is weak. It means that the
sort of the kind of going into it. And
that was kind of what got me into
trouble, you know, a few weeks ago was I
said like look for a low in early April.
It could be a higher low. So, but but
then people just sort of thought, all
right, Bitcoin has to go lower in April.
But the point is is in midterm years,
one of the major weakness points is
June, right? June of 2018 and June of
2022. Now, in 2014,
you can see that you had a high that
formed in early June. But even then, in
the first week of June, there was a big
drop. you know that back to that 20we
SMA, it formed a lower high in late June
and then we fell down into October. Now,
what I told you guys a week or two ago,
I said that if June is going to be a low
rather than a high, then we need to
start dropping because if Bitcoin just
continued to go up, right, then how
could June be a low if it's just going
up into June? But the fact that Bitcoin
sold off the last couple of weeks raises
raises the odds a lot that you are
looking at a potential low in June. Now
again, that doesn't mean it has to be a
lower low. In 2018, it was a lower low,
right? You had a low in February, a
higher low in April, and then a slightly
lower low in June. In 2022, it was a
major lower low, right? Um, and in 2014,
you know, it was it was a little bit
different as we were back above the bull
market support band, which you could
argue is not that different from what
we're seeing right now, right? You know,
back then when Bitcoin got above the
bull market support band, what it did
was it it got above it, it sold off,
rallied, and then sold off again. What
we just did was we got above it, we sold
off. Are we going to see it rally for a
little bit? It's possible. If it does,
then it it would look more like 2014.
But what I'm thinking is there is a
still a good chance that we we end up
seeing that low form in June. So what I
would say is this. If Bitcoin falls
below back below the bare market
resistance band, kind of like how it did
in 2022, you see how in 2022 we got
above the bare market resistance band
and then we got right back below it. And
it's also happened in other bare markets
as well. Like in 2018, there was a
couple times we got above it, but then
we just kind of sold off right after it.
2014, we got above it um and it did take
a little bit longer to get back below
it, but we still did get above it. And
even in 2019, you can see we briefly got
above it um a couple of times actually
before falling back down. So look, if
the losses accelerate for Bitcoin and we
just had two red weeks and if they just
continue to go down, then I would say
look for a low to form in June, okay?
Because a lot of times what will happen
is a low will form in June and and then
you'll bounce for a little bit into into
like sort of the July August time frame.
If that doesn't happen and we just kind
of stay elevated, then it it to me it
would be more likely to play out how it
did in 2014 where even in then you still
stayed elevated for basically all of
July and we didn't really start to see
it move back down again until August. A
lot of times July in midterm years holds
up okay and it's usually after a June
capitulation.
Um again all this to me is just
academic. I'm not like trading these
specific ideas. I thought it made sense
to offload the Bitcoin that you were
wanted to offload back over here in late
Q4, not to panic sell it late in the
midterm year, but I still do think we
will likely see Bitcoin head back down
as the year goes on. And you know, I
know some of the biggest counterpoints
to this is like, well, what's going on
in the stock market? Yeah, but the stock
market going up the last several weeks
already didn't stop Bitcoin from
dropping, you know. So, and and the
other point too is if you look at the
valuation of Bitcoin against the stock
market, you'll see that it it's gotten
rejected by its bare market resistance
band.
And this is something that frequently
happens in midterm years, right? If you
look at midterm years, Bitcoin's
valuation against the S&P frequently
gets rejected at that 20we SMA, 21week
EMA, and that's exactly where it just
got rejected at. So, I think Bitcoin is
going to continue to underperform the
S&P 500 for at least a few more months
and then probably start to outperform
again hopefully next year. Now, you
might say, why? Like, why is Bitcoin
underperforming when the stock market is
doing so well? Well, I think the stock
market is doing so well primarily
because of a lot of AI names are really
helping the market a lot. Probably will
continue for at least in the short term.
Even the S&P M2 fractal would still say
the stock market could even stay
elevated even until September. um and it
not really be that different from what
we saw back, you know, 26 years ago. Um
but I I will say the thing that I think
people are missing is that the the S&P
is going up because, you know, there's
all these earnings expectations, all
these companies. Crypto doesn't really
have that. Crypto is more dependent on
monetary policy and liquidity than it is
all these other things that stocks are
dependent on. And so when you look at
what's happened to monetary policy and
expectations, we're looking the market's
starting to price in rate hikes. Now, I
don't know if we're going to get it, but
the fact that the market's pricing it in
is bearish for crypto in general. And so
if this continues to head this
direction, it'll likely remain a macro
headwind for Bitcoin for at least a few
more months. Okay? and and this could
continue. We could see more rate hikes
get priced in if if you know oil heads
back up, if um if things over in the
Middle East don't get resolved. Now,
obviously there's chatter about a deal
and I'm not really following it that
closely to be completely honest. But I
will say there is a good chance oil
could still remain structurally elevated
for the rest of this year. And I wonder
if it's just basically waiting for that
bull market to catch up before it
continues back up. So, we'll see. I
mean, I know it's it's selling off
today, uh, but it's, you know, it's done
that plenty of times over the last few
months, and it's still way higher than
it was, you know, back in in late 2025.
So,
maybe the narrative for Bitcoin going
lower would be that, you know, energy
prices don't go back down right away and
they stay elevated and maybe they start
to go back up in the third quarter. And
if that's the case, then that would
probably cause more rate hikes to be
priced in, which would likely be a
headwind for Bitcoin. And then perhaps
by the end of the year, Bitcoin's priced
in all that stuff, and then it can start
back into a a bull market. That is at
least my guess as to how this is going
to play out. I would have been amenable
to an earlier uh to to the bull market
starting sooner, but the fact that we
didn't continue to see devaluation
um after February makes me think there's
still more to come. If Bitcoin just kind
of bounced and then went lower into like
May and June, then I think it would have
already made sense to flip bullish. But
the fact that it hasn't makes me think
this is just like another bare market
rally like the ones we've had in prior
midterm years. I know it's not a popular
view and and a lot of people dunk on me
every single week for it, but that is
what I I think is happening. Now, that
doesn't mean Bitcoin has to go down to
$10,000. I'm not saying that. It
probably isn't going there. Um, but I I
would still expect at least a sweep of
the low like kind of how it did in 2018
and and it and it very well could go
below that, right? But I mean that's
sort of the next step would be at least
a sweep of the low at at 60k I think
would be highly probable to happen
within the next couple of months or so.
And if you think this time has been
different, it hasn't been. If you look
at the sort of the the amount of time it
takes for Bitcoin to put in new lows in
bare markets in 2018, it took Bitcoin
about 20 weeks like 19 weeks or so um
from that low to that low. And then the
next low took about 21 weeks. You're
talking about 20 weeks. If you look at
the low that Bitcoin put in in June
until that low was taken out, it was
about 21 weeks. Uh if you look at 2014
from this low in April to when we took
it out, it was about, you know, 25 weeks
or so. So it can take upwards of 20
weeks. We're currently on week 16. And
if you think about it, 20 weeks would
put you in in late June, which is
probably, you know, late June, I
believe. That's the next Fed meeting,
uh, June 17th. And the next Bank of
Japan meeting is that same time, I
believe. And if they raise rates, a lot
of times what Bitcoin has done, not a
lot of times, so there has been some
precedent for Bitcoin to finding a low
like a week after the Bank of Japan
raises rates. That's actually what it
did in um August of 20 24
right here. The bank trend raised rates
like right there and then uh Bitcoin
sold off, capitulated, and then it
bounced. So anyways guys, those are my
thoughts. We'll wrap it up there. Thank
you guys for tuning in. Subscribe to the
channel. Uh check out benjamincan.com if
you haven't. Um and we also do have that
direct access option under into the
cryptoverse now if you're wanting um
more direct contact. But we'll wrap it
up there. Thank you guys for tuning in
and I'll see you next time.